---
layout: post
title: "Wasifa will give a practice thesis talk"
root: ../../
---
In our lab meeting next Tuesday, Wasifa will give a practice thesis talk. Here is the title and abstract:

**Employing Neural Hierarchical Model with Pointer Generator Networks for Abstractive Text Summarization**

**Abstract:** *As​ ​growth​ ​of​ ​online​​ ​data​ ​continues, ​ ​​automatic summarization​ ​is​ ​integral​ ​in​ ​generating​ ​a​ ​condensed​ ​version of a text while preserving the meaning of the original input. Although​ ​most​ ​of the​ ​earlier​ ​works​ ​on​ ​automatic​ ​summarization​ ​use​ extractive​ ​approaches​ ​to​ ​identify​ ​the​ ​most​ ​important​ ​information of​ a ​document, ​ recent​ ​research​ ​focus​ ​on​ ​the​ ​more​ ​challenging​ ​task​ ​of​ ​making​ ​the summaries​ ​abstractive. Sequence-to-sequence models with attention have quantitatively shown to be effective for abstractive summarization, but the quality of the generated summaries is often poor with incorrect and redundant information. In this thesis, we present an end-to-end neural network framework which combines a hierarchical content selector and pointer generator networks abstractor through a multi-level attention mechanism that uses the sentence importance scores from the former model to help the word-level attention of the latter model make better decisions when generating the output words. Hence, words from key sentences will be attended more than words in less salient sentences of input. Our approach is motivated by human writers who tend to focus only on the relevant portions of an article when summarizing while ignoring anything irrelevant that might degrade the output quality. We conduct experiments on the challenging CNN/Daily Mail dataset, which consists of long newswire articles paired with multiple-sentence summaries. Experimental results show that our end-to-end architecture outperforms the extractive systems and strong lead-3 baseline and achieves competitive ROUGE and METEOR scores with previous abstractive systems on the same dataset. Qualitative analysis on test data shows that the generated summaries are fluent as well as informative.
*

Tuesday, October 29th, 10:30 a.m. TASC1 9408.
 
